In this lecture we are going to prepare the endpoint for the login form.
This time we're going to start with the PHP function for handling the request.
After the function is ready, we'll prepare the form on the front end to get started.
Open the init php file.
Inside this file, we registered a new route for user registration.
The process is going to be the same for the login form.
Let's create a new route by calling the register rest route function.
The first argument of this function is the namespace.
Let's set the namespace to up slash v one.
We're using the same namespace as before.
It's considered good practice to use a consistent namespace for our routes as long as they're related
to one another.
It's perfectly fine to share a namespace.
Next, let's pass on the path for this route.
The name of the route will be called Slash sign in.
Afterward.
Let's pass in an array for configuring the routes.
First, we should limit the route to post requests.
Let's set the methods key to post.
Next set the callback key to the following value up rest API.
Sign in handler.
Lastly, set the permission callback key to the return true function.
After adding these three keys, we can define the function for handling the request.
Create a file called sign in PHP.
Inside this file.
Define the up rest API sign in handler function.
So far so good.
The next step is to handle the response.
Inside this function, let's create a variable called response.
The value for this variable will be an array.
We're going to be using the same practice as before.
The array should contain a key called status.
The value for this key will be one.
If the response fails, we will leave the status as one.
Otherwise, the status should be updated to two for a successful response.
Next, let's begin invalidating the request.
If the visitor fails to provide a username or password, we should not authenticate them into the system.
Let's update the function to accept the request arguments.
Afterward.
Let's grab the data received by the request below the response variable to find another variable called
parameters.
The value for this variable will be the request gets json params function.
The against json params function will extract data from the body of the request.
The final step is to validate the parameters, create a conditional statement that returns the response
variable.
We're going to create three conditions.
The first condition will be the is set function with the not operator.
The first condition will check the parameters from the body of the request.
Inside this function pass in the params user log in and params password variables.
Next, let's add the condition with the ore operator.
The second condition will be the empty function with the params user log and variable.
Lastly, let's add the owner operator one more time.
The last condition will be the empty function again.
This time we're going to check the params password variable.
If any of these conditions are true, the form has invalid data.
We should not authenticate the user.
Let's assume the values are valid.
We can proceed to update the status key of the response variable.
The variable should be updated to two.
Lastly, let's return the response.
I know I flew by the solution.
Most of this isn't new to us.
These are steps we've covered in the previous lecture.
This was an opportunity to practice creating an endpoint.
As you can see, the process is mostly the same.
Let's test our endpoint.
Open the postman application.
Throughout this course, we are going to be creating additional end points.
Before we test our new endpoint, let's start organizing our endpoints.
Postman has a feature for organizing URLs and to collections.
A collection can be thought of as a folder for your URLs.
Let's store our endpoints into a collection for authentication.
On the sidebar, click on the folder icon.
This will open the collection for a workspace.
Next, let's add a new collection.
Postman will open a new tab for the collection.
We can edit the name of the collection by pressing the pencil icon.
Let's set the name to authentication.
Afterward switch to the other tab from a previous session.
Postman will save the registration URL.
We can click on the save button to add this URL to the authentication collection.
The URL can be given a name.
Let's set the name to register.
After setting the name.
Let's save the URL.
The endpoint should appear in the collection by saving the URL.
We can revisit the URL without typing the URL.
On new sessions, it'll be easier to revisit endpoints.
Next, let's add the endpoint for logging in.
Add a new tab inside the URL input.
Add the following url wp json slash up slash v one slash sign in.
Next, let's change the method to post.
Great.
We can finally attempt to send the request.
As expected, the response will reject the request.
We haven't provided the user login or password.
Let's add this information to the request by switching to the body tab.
Under this tab, we need to change the body of the request by selecting the raw option.
On the right side, we can specify the content type by setting it to JSON.
Lastly, let's create an object with the user login and password properties.
Their values can be random.
Initiate the request one more time.
This time, the request should go through.
We can verify the response by checking the status key.
The value of this key is to perfect.
We've successfully created the endpoint.
In the next lecture.
Let's begin authenticating the user.